.TH BAISHI 1 "December 2024" "Version 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
baishi \- AI-powered shell wrapper that converts natural language to shell commands
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B baishi
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fICOMMAND\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B baishi
is an intelligent shell wrapper that uses AI to convert natural language descriptions
into executable shell commands. It supports multiple AI providers including OpenAI,
Google AI, Anthropic, Ollama, and OpenRouter.
.PP
When invoked without arguments, baishi enters interactive mode where you can type
your command description. You can also pass the description directly as arguments.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-n, \-\-no\-confirm
Execute generated commands without confirmation prompt
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-format
Format command output using AI for better readability
.TP
.B \-r, \-\-raw
Show raw command output without any formatting
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-provider \fIPROVIDER\fR
Specify AI provider to use (openai, google, anthropic, ollama, openrouter)
.TP
.B \-m, \-\-model \fIMODEL\fR
Specify the AI model to use
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-config
Display the configuration file path
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-setup
Run the interactive setup wizard
.TP
.B \-H, \-\-history
Show command history
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display help information
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Display version information
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B setup
Run the interactive setup wizard to configure baishi
.TP
.B config
Display current configuration settings
.TP
.B history [\-l \fIN\fR]
Show command history (optionally limit to N entries)
.SH CONFIGURATION
Configuration is stored in \fI~/.baishi/baishi_profile\fR and loaded on startup.
.PP
Environment variables that can be set:
.TP
.B BAISH_PROVIDER
Default AI provider to use
.TP
.B BAISH_API_KEY
API key for the selected provider
.TP
.B BAISH_MODEL
AI model to use
.TP
.B BAISH_FORMAT_OUTPUT
Whether to format output with AI (true/false)
.TP
.B BAISH_CONFIRM
Whether to confirm before execution (true/false)
.TP
.B BAISH_SAVE_HISTORY
Whether to save command history (true/false)
.TP
.B BAISH_OLLAMA_HOST
Custom Ollama host URL (for local models)
.TP
.B BAISH_OPENROUTER_API_KEY
OpenRouter API key
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Interactive mode:
.RS
.B baishi
.RE
.PP
Direct command:
.RS
.B baishi "list all python files modified today"
.RE
.PP
Without confirmation:
.RS
.B baishi -n "show disk usage"
.RE
.PP
With formatted output:
.RS
.B baishi -f "check system memory"
.RE
.PP
Using specific provider:
.RS
.B baishi -p ollama "find large files"
.RE
.PP
Setup wizard:
.RS
.B baishi setup
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.baishi/baishi_profile
User configuration file
.TP
.I ~/.baishi/history.json
Command history file
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Successful execution
.TP
.B 1
General error or command failure
.TP
.B Non-zero
Exit code from executed shell command
.SH SUPPORTED PROVIDERS
.TP
.B OpenAI
GPT-4, GPT-3.5 models (requires API key)
.TP
.B Google AI
Gemini models (requires API key)
.TP
.B Anthropic
Claude models (requires API key)
.TP
.B Ollama
Local models (no API key required)
.TP
.B OpenRouter
Access to multiple providers (requires API key)
.SH SECURITY
Always review generated commands before execution. Use the confirmation prompt
(enabled by default) to prevent accidental execution of dangerous commands.
Never store sensitive API keys in plain text; use the setup wizard for secure
configuration.
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/yourusername/baishi/issues
.SH AUTHOR
Written by the Baishi contributors.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2024 Baishi Project. License: MIT
.br
This is free software; you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bash (1),
.BR zsh (1),
.BR sh (1)
.PP
Full documentation at: https://baishi.readthedocs.io/